# Genome-and-Genetic-Disorder-Prediction

This repository presents a technique to predict the genetic disorder and disorder subclass before the time of pregnancy. Infancy is plagued with genetic disorder and congenital anomalies which are the leading cause of mortality.The objective of the research is to determine the abnormalities of the genes that are the major cause of the genetic disorder using various machine learning algorithms which helps the geneticist to prevent the genetic disorder of the infants. To elaborate,  genetics disorder and disorder subclass prediction is done using various machine learning algorithms to compare the accuracy and error rate .The findings point to the possibility of noninvasively diagnosing fetal genetic diseasesvia genome-wide scanning during pregnancy. The major algorithms such as Logistic Regression, Gaussian NB,K Neighbors Classifier,Decision Tree Classifier, Random Forest Classifier , Gradient Boosting Classifier are used for the prediction, and the accuracy , error rates are compared for the best prediction algorithm. The results of the prediction algorithms are considered for the genetic disorder and disorder subclass to save the future generation from various diseases and major illnesses. The visualization of algorithms are done using R programming software and the inferences are observed for further prophecy.

It has achieved the main aim of the paper by predicting risk of the genetic disorder and disorder subclass in the future generation . The main cause for genetic disorder is due to mutation in genetic material. We have given the effective model on comparing their accuracy , R2CV and error rate. From our prediction, we found that there are 3 different types of genetic disorder.
We have further found normality and homogeneity but it seems to be less effective as there are many missing values. So it is necessary for the individual to know the family genotypes and characteristics. Thus making it feasible to predict the disorder of future generations in a better way.
